Okay. All right. Uh, thank you all for
coming. uh as we as we start to think
about the next generation of tools for
builders and how we're going to use
these incredibly powerful models that
are starting to come online um we wanted
to just hear from you all about what
you'd like uh what what's on your mind
answer any questions but I hope we come
out of today with a much clearer sense
of what to build for you all and how to
make these incredibly powerful models
useful. Um I figured I would start with
a question from Twitter. Uh where do you
fall in the Jevans paradox of software
engineering? If AI makes code
dramatically faster and cheaper to
create, does that reduce demand for
software engineers or does cheaper
custom software massively increase
demand and keep engineers employed for
decades?
I think what it means to be an engineer
is going to super change. I there will
be probably far more people and creating
far more value and capturing more value
that are getting computers to do what
they want. Um getting computers to do
what other people want. figuring out
ways to make these useful experiences
for others. But
the the shape of that job and the amount
of time you spend like typing code uh or
debugging code or a bunch of other
things is going to very much change.
This has happened many other times in
engineering and each time it's happened
uh so far at least more people have been
able to join and be productive and the
world has gotten much more software.
demand for software seems to not be
slowing down at all. And my guess on the
future is a lot of us use software that
was lit written for one person or a very
small number of people and we're
constantly customizing our own software.
So I think many more people will
get computers to do the things they want
to do and it will be uh
a very different way than we do it
today. So if you count that as uh
software engineering then I think we'll
see much more of it and I think a
greater percentage of the world's GDP
will be created that way and consumed
that way too. Any questions live
otherwise I have a long list. Go ahead.
>> Uh well first I want to thank you for
giving us this opportunity to be here
and then and ask you these questions.
Um, from a consumer standpoint, I use
ChadByt heavily. Uh, and I'm always on
Reddit seeing everyone's building,
whether it's using codeex, lovable, or
cursor. Uh, but it seems like the new
problem is GTM, right? That I can build
these things. I, but how do I find
people to gain value from what I'm
building? Uh, and I see it to be a
bottleneck. Uh, I'm curious as to what
you think about that.
it. Before this, I used to run Y
Combinator and every the consistent
thing you'd hear from startup founders
is I thought the hard part part of this
was going to be building a product and
the hard part is getting anyone to care
or to use it or like to connect people.
So, I think this has always been
extremely hard, but now it's gotten so
much easier to build that you feel the
the delta even more. Um, I don't have an
easy answer for this. Uh, I think always
it's been hard to build a business and
it, you know, to figure out a way to
build differentiated value to get the go
to market function working. I think all
of the old rules still apply there. The
fact that AI can kind of
make make it far easier to create
software doesn't mean any of the rest of
this gets easier. Except
I think you're starting to see in the
same way that a AI has transformed
software engineering, people are now
using it to automate sales, automate
marketing, and there will be some
success there. But I think it's always
going to be difficult because even in a
world of incredible abundance, human
attention remains like this very limited
thing. And so you're always going to be
competing with other people trying to
build their own go to market muscle and
figure out how to get the distribution.
and every potential customer is busy and
everything else. So, uh, you know, I I
could tell a version of the future where
all of the radical abundance comes true
and
human attention really is like the
remaining commodity. And so, I just
expect this to be hard and you got to
come up with creative ideas and build
great things.
Thanks, Sam. I'm George. I'm a solo
developer and I'm building um like uh on
top of the codeex SDK. I'm building a
way to orchestrate multiple agents and I
have a question about your agent builder
tool and sort of your product vision for
where that agent builder tool goes. At
the moment, it's just kind of workflows
and chaining prompts together. But I'm
wondering as a builder building on the
Codeex SDK, am I safe? Like do you see
room for a lot of different types of UIs
for multi or multi- aent orchestration
or do you see like opens that stay away?
>> No, I think
we don't know what the right
interface for all of this is going to
be. We don't know how people are going
to want to use it. Um, we have seen
people build incredible multi- aent
setups. We have seen people build just a
really great single interactive thread.
Um,
we're not going to figure this out on
our own. And also, not everybody is
going to want the same thing. You know,
there will be people that'll be like in
one of the they're in one of those like
old movies with 30 computer screens and
they're like looking at this crazy thing
here and doing this and, you know,
moving stuff around. And I think there
will be people who want to be in a very
calm conversation in voice mode where
they're saying something to their
computer once per hour. The computer's
figuring out a lot of things and they're
not, you know, they're trying to think
really hard about what they say, but
they don't want like the constant
supervision of tons of agents. Um,
like many other things,
people will just have to try different
approaches and see what they like, and
the world will probably converge on a
few, but we won't figure out all of
them. Um,
I think building tools to help people
get be productive with extremely capable
models is a very good idea. Um, that's
totally, I think, missing right now. The
overhang of what these models are
capable of relative to what most people
can figure out how to get out of them is
is like huge and growing. And
someone is going to build a tool to
really help you do that. And no one's
gotten it right yet. Um, we will also
try our own versions of that, but this
is a place where it seems like there's a
lot of room and people are going to have
different preferences. If any of you
have things you'd like us to build, uh,
here, like, let us know and we can try.
>> Hey Sam, I'm Valerie Chapman and I'm
building Ruth on open AI. Um, I would
love to know your thoughts on this
because currently women actually leave
about a million dollars on the table due
to the wage gap. And I'm curious um how
you think AI can be used to solve econom
economic gaps that have that have
existed for decades.
I think the good news,
well, there's like a lot of complex
news, but one of the things that I think
is mostly good news is that AI is going
to be massively deflationary. Um, I've
gone back and forth on this a little bit
because you can imagine some weird
things happening with all of the money
in the world going into self-replicating
data centers or whatever, but it it
looks like on the whole given certainly
progress with work you can do in front
of a computer, but also what looks like
it will soon happen with robotics and a
bunch of other things. Um, we're going
to have massively deflationary pressure
in the economy.
And I said mostly good because there
will be some complicated things to
navigate through there. But things
getting, you know, radically cheaper
other than the areas where the sort of
social or governmental policy prevents
that, like, you know, building more
houses in San Francisco or something, I
expect that to be pretty strong and
pretty quick. the
the empowerment of individual people
whether or not society has structured in
a way where they've naturally had all of
the advantages
looks like it's going to go up and up.
Um, I
I still find it hard to wrap my head
around that, you know, I'd say by the
end of this year for a hundred or $1,000
of inference, you will be able to and
and a good idea, you'll be able to
create a piece of software that would
have taken teams of people, you know, a
year to do. This is like very hard to
wrap, at least my head around the sort
of magnitude of this economic change.
And
that should be a very empowering thing
for people. Um, massively more abundance
and access and massively decrease cost
to be able to create
new things, new companies,
discover new science, whatever. Um,
I think that should be an equalizing
force in society and a way that people
who have not gotten treated that fairly
get a really good shot as long as we
don't screw up the the policy around it
in a big way, which could happen. Um
I am worried that you you can you can
imagine worlds in which AI really
concentrates power and wealth and that
feels like needs to be one of the main
goals of policy for that not to happen.
>> Hey uh my name is Ben Hilac. I'm the CTO
of a company called Raindrop. I'm
curious as you look into the future how
you think about
models being specialized versus
generalized. So, uh, one example of this
is like GPT 4.5 was the first model that
I thought was like really good at
writing. Like, I remember like seeing
the outputs. I was like, "All right,
this is really good writing." Uh,
there's been a lot of discourse on like
Twitter and X recently about chat uh
about GT5's writing in chatbt um and
being a little unwieldy, hard to read.
Um, obviously GT5 is a much better agent
model, really good tool use,
intermediate reasoning, whatever. Um, so
it feels like it feels like uh models
are a little bit spiky or they've gotten
even spikier where some spikes like
coding got super high, some spikes like
uh or it's very unspiky around writing.
So I'm just kind of curious how you how
OpenAI thinks about that feature. I I
think we just screwed that up. Uh we
will make future versions of GPT 5.x uh
hopefully much better at writing than
4.5 was. Um, we did decide, and I think
for good reason, to put most of our
effort in
5.2 into making it super good at
intelligence, reasoning, coding,
engineering, that kind of thing. Um, and
we have limited bandwidth here, and
sometimes we focus on one thing and
neglect another. But I believe that the
future is mostly going to be about very
good general purpose models. Um, you
know, even if you're trying to
make a model that's really great at
coding, it'd be nice if it writes well,
too. Like, if you're trying to have it
be able to generate a full application
for you, you'd like good writing in
there. When it's interacting with you,
you'd like it to have a sort of
thoughtful, incisive personality and
communicate clearly. Like good writing
in the sense of clear thought, not like
beautiful pros. Um
so my hope is that we just push
to get future models really good in all
of these dimensions and I think we will
do that. Um I think intelligence is a
surprisingly fungeible thing and
we can get really good at all these
things in a single model. Um
it does seem like this is a particularly
important time to push on kind of let's
call it coding intelligence. Um but we
will try to excel and catch up on
everything else quickly.
>> I'll do a couple from Twitter after
this. Go ahead.
>> Um I'm CTO at this company called Unifi.
Uh to your point earlier, we're doing go
to market automation. Um, one thing that
we think a lot about and spend a lot of
time on is kind of always on AI, sort of
like this ubiquitous AI. Something that
you've said that really resonated with
me is intelligence too cheap to meter.
Uh, the limiting factor for us to run
millions, tens of millions, hundreds of
millions of agents for our customers is
cost.
um how do you think about small models
um costs sort of dramatic cost
reductions um for developers over the
next uh you know months and years
I think we should be able to deliver
sort of
GPT 5.2x to x high level intelligence
by the end of 2027 for
do you want to give a better guess I can
give one otherwise
anyone want to give a guess I would say
at least 100x less um
but there's another dimension which we
haven't thought about as much
historically and now as these out model
outputs get so complex more people are
pushing us on the speed we can deliver
it at than the cost and that is we are
really good at writing down the cost
curve. You can look at the progress
we've made even from like the first 01
preview until now. Um we have not
thought as much about how we deliver the
output the same output and maybe at a at
a much higher price but in 1/100th of
the time. And I think for a lot of
things you're talking about people are
going to really want that. uh
we have to figure out how we're going to
balance between prioritizing for those
two things. Uh they unfortunately are
very different problems, but assuming we
go push on cost and assuming that's kind
of like what you all the market wants,
we can go very far down that curve.
Yeah, let me do a couple of Twitter
ones.
Current interfaces weren't built with
agents in mind, but were seen a rise in
apps I built for me. why innovations in
customizent interfaces could further
accelerate the trend towards micro apps.
Yeah, so this is one that I have noticed
in my own um use of codecs recently is
I no longer think of software as this
static thing. If I have a little
problem, I expect the computer to like
write some code right away and get it
solved for me. Um and I think this trend
is going to go much further. I I suspect
that the whole way we use computers and
operating systems is is going to change.
I don't think it'll be like, oh, every
time you need to edit a document, a new
version of a word processor is going to
be written for you right on the spot
because, you know, we get like very used
to our interfaces and it's very
important that like that button is in
the same place it was last time. But
for a lot of other things that we do, I
think we will find that we expect
software to be written just for us and
when maybe I want to use the same word
processor every time. But I do kind of
have a bunch of repeated quirks of how I
use it and I would like the software to
be increasingly customized. you know, a
static or a slowly evolving piece of
software. Um, but written for me and the
way I use it is different than the way
you use it. And that idea that our kind
of tools are constantly evolving and
converging just for us, that seems like
it's going to happen. And and certainly
internally at OpenAI where people have
like very much adopted codecs for their
workflows right now. Uh, everybody has
their own little custom things and use
things super differently. So that one
seems like it's
guaranteed and I think that's like a a
very good direction to go build in and
figuring out what that's going to look
like and how people are going to do that
seems seems great.
How should builders think about
durability when startup features can
quickly be replaced by model updates?
What is the one layer of the stack you
promise not to eat? Um we talked about
this a little bit earlier. the
it's so tempting to assume that like the
laws of physics for business have have
totally changed and they haven't yet.
They may continue to change over time,
but right now what's changed is that you
can do work faster and you can kind of
create
new software much much faster. Um,
but all the other rules of building a
successful startup, you know, you got to
figure out a way to get users, you got
to figure out a way to like solve the
GTM problem. You got to figure out a way
to provide something sticky, have some
sort of mode, network effect,
competitive advantage, whatever you want
to call it. Um, none of that has changed
and the good news is like hasn't changed
for us either. So there have been many
startups that have done things that
maybe in a perfect world we would have
done sooner but it was too late and
people built up you know a real durable
advantage and that will keep happening.
I
the the general framework I always give
people when they ask something some
version of this question is will your
company be happy or sad if GPT6 is like
a wildly impressive update? And I I
encourage people cuz we continue to hope
to make a lot of progress. Um I
encourage people to try to build things
where you are so hoping the model gets
wildly better. And there's so many
things to build that way. And then the
things where it's like a little sort of
patch around the edge that actually can
still work if you build up enough of an
advantage before the models get
upgraded, but it is a harder and more
stressful path.
Let me do one more. We'll go back to the
room.
um realistic timeline for agents that
can run long workflows autonomously
without constant human intervention
given that even simple onchain tasks
often break after 5 to 10 steps.
Anybody from open want to give an
opinion on that?
Go ahead.
I think it really depends on the kind of
task. So there's a number of tasks today
where just inside OpenAI we see people
who are like prompting codecs in a very
special way. Maybe they're using the
SDK. So it's like a custom harness that
keeps prompting it to continue but they
basically having it running you know
forever. Um and so I think this isn't a
question of when but it's a question of
like broadening of the horizon. So if
you have a very specific task that you
understand very well try doing it today.
you know, if you're starting to think
like, okay, I want to get to the point
where I can like prompt the model to
build a startup, like that's a much more
open-ended problem with like a much
harder verification loop. So, I would
encourage you to like figure out, okay,
how can I break that down into a
different problem where an agent can
like verify itself um and then when I
can verify its final output at the end
of it and then over time we can let the
agent do more and more and ber tasks.
Other questions there?
>> Thank you. Um, hi Sam. Um, so I want to
go back on this like human attention and
this question about GTM. Um, I always
think like the other side like human
attention is the rate limiting factor on
the consumption side. On the production
side for all the builders, it's the
quality of ideas. And I just wanted to
tee this up for you on well I spent all
my time helping AI companies with their
GTM and a lot of times the products
actually just aren't worth uh their
attention. So so I guess how do people
uh what what tools can you build to
improve the quality of ideas that people
coming up with?
There's a lot of it's popular to like
call AI output slop but there's a lot of
like human generated slop in the world
too. It's it's very hard to come up with
good new ideas and I am
increasingly a believer that we think at
the limits of our tools. Um
I think we should try to build
tools that help people come up with good
ideas. I believe there are a lot and I
believe as the cost of creation keeps to
plummet um we'll be able to have such a
tight feedback loop on trying them we'll
find the good ones faster and as
AI can discover new science in addition
to writing very complex code bases I I
feel confident there will be just a
whole new possibility space but
the experience of sitting down in front
of an AI
you know, like a gentic code writer and
just not being sure what to ask for next
is something that a lot of people
report. And
if we can build tools to help
you come up with good ideas, you know,
uh, and I believe we could do that. I
believe we could like
look at all your past work and all your
past code and uh try to figure out what
might be useful to you or interesting to
you and and can just continuously
suggest things. Um if we can help
provide a a really great brainstorming
partner. There have been like three or
four people in my life that I have
consistently found every time I hang out
with them, I leave with a lot of ideas.
They're people who are just really good
at asking questions or giving you seeds
to build on. Um, and like Paul Graham is
off the charts amazing at this. If we
can build like a Paul Graham bot that
you can
have the same kind of interaction with
to help generate new ideas, even if most
of them are bad, um, even if you know
you you kind of say absolutely not to 95
out of a hundred of them. Um,
I think something like that is going to
be
a a very significant contribution to the
amount of good stuff that gets built in
the world. And the models feel like they
ought to be capable of that. With 5.2,
like a special version of 5.2 we use
internally, we're now for the first time
hearing from scientists that these the
scientific progress of these models is
no longer super trivial. And I just
can't believe that a model that can come
up with new
scientific insights is not also capable,
you know, with a different harness and
trained a little bit differently of
coming up with new insights about
products to build and stuff like that.
>> Howdy. Um, Theo dev YouTuber YC founder
also really want the Paul Grahambot. I
want to ask about something a little bit
different though, more on the technical
side. I really love when technologies
like the building blocks that we use
evolve and I've been there for some
crazy revolutions in the web world like
moving to TypeScript and Tailwind and
all these things. One of the fears I
have as the models and the tools we used
to build with get better is that we
might get stuck with the way we have
things working now like the power grid
in the US is built a certain way that
makes things worse and we can't really
change it. Is do you see this potential
here? Are we making foundations out of
the technologies as they exist right now
that are going to be harder to swap in
the future? Because even trying to get
the current models to use the update to
a technology that happened two years ago
can feel like you're pulling teeth. Do
you think we'll be able to steer the
models enough to get them to use new
things or are we just done improving the
technologies we build on now?
>> I I think we really will be very good at
getting the models to use new things.
Fundamentally, if we're using these
models correctly, they're like a general
purpose reasoning engine. The way we
have things architected right now, they
also have, you know, a huge amount of
world knowledge built into them. But I
think we are moving in the right
direction. And I hope that
updates and using new things and
learning new skills even faster than
humans do is like a, you know, next
couple of years thing. The
a milestone that we will be very proud
of is when
the model can be presented with
something totally new, new environment,
new tools, new technology, whatever. And
you can explain it once or you know what
I mean to explain the model can explore
it once and then just super reliably use
that and get it right. And that doesn't
feel that doesn't feel very far away.
Sorry, I I had a question that I think
you've touched on already, but as a as a
scientist um and kind of on the older
end, uh when you do a scientific
project, um it tends to generate, you
know, multiple ideas for further
research. So, it's exponentially growing
while a given scientist only has a, you
know, a linearly decreasing amount of
time to carry that out. So, it's a it's
uh incredible how these tools are
speeding it up. Um, but we're we're all
greedy for more. And you touched on this
earlier, but do you think that the
possibility that you know in addition to
helping us uh pursue all those
interesting ideas um in a shorter time
that there will be a a transition where
the models, you know, will take over the
whole research enterprise? And uh if so
do you see that as coming from the
existing algorithms or requiring new
ideas or world models or that sort of
thing?
>> I think it's a still a long or
reasonably long way away from the models
doing truly completely closed loop
autonomous research in most areas. Um,
we could look at something like
mathematics and say, "Okay, that one
doesn't need a wet lab or physical input
at all." You know, maybe you can just
think really hard and make a ton of
progress if you kind of continually
updating the model. eventually even
there for now the the mathematicians who
are making the most progress with the
models are very heavily involved in
looking at intermediate progress and
saying nah this just doesn't feel right
you know I have an intuition that
there's something different on this
other path but I've gotten to meet a few
mathematicians who now say their entire
day is collaborating with the latest
models they're making rapid progress but
they do something very different than
the model. To be honest, it feels to me
like that period in chess history when
uh you know, Deep Blue beat Kasparov.
Then there was this period of time where
okay, you know, AI is better than
humans, but a human plus an AI that
where the human is like choosing the
best of 10 moves from the AI is better
than that. And then very quickly after
that, the AI was again better and the
human was like just making it worse. Um,
I sort of suspect for something like
many kinds of research, something like
that should happen over time and things
are going to get so complex that the AI
can understand sort of multi-step things
better than most people can or all
people can. Um
but there seems to be something about
creativity,
intuition,
judgment that we are not close to with
the current generation of models. Uh I
can't come up with any principled reason
why we won't get there. So I assume we
will. Uh but today I don't think just
sort of saying like hey GPT 5 point GBT6
go solve math. um that is certainly not
going to outperform a few very good
people doing math with it and saying
okay this is a good direction this is
you know even though we can verify even
though we can say hey you did a great
proof put that back into the training
set there's something else happening um
in terms of the workflows that are
working though you touched on something
which is you answer one you solve one
problem and it opens up many new
problems um that's where it's been very
cool to talk to the scientists that are
really using this uh aggressively. I
mean, they burn a lot of GPUs in the
process, but the the I think there is a
new skill of being able to say here's
the 20 new problems and I'm going to
like I'm going to do a breath first
search on them. I'm not going to go deep
on anyone and I'm going to use the AI to
like be a unlimited grad students is how
someone described it. I actually
recently upgraded them to unlimited
postocs. Um,
in terms of automating
physical science, uh, we go back and
forth a lot about whether we should be
building
automated wet labs for every field. Um,
which we're open to doing, or if the
world as a whole will figure out great
experiments and has a lot of equipment
and will happily contribute data back
in. It sort of seems like just watching
the scientific community embrace 5.2 and
how much they've been willing to help
that that might work and that would
clearly be a easier, better, more
distributed, more smart people. Um, more
different kinds of equipment world.
>> Hi Sam, my name is Emmy. I'm a Stamford
student and I run a biocurity startup.
So to your conversation about scientific
experiments and really just like for
example like cloud labs and where all
this is going, my team spends a lot of
time thinking about how we can prevent
the harms of AI enabled biological
redesign but also how can we use AI to
uplift security infrastructure. So I
guess my question is where does security
fall in this 126 roadmap and um broadly
how do you think about some of these
issues? security broadly or biocurity
specifically?
>> Um either preferably biocurity.
>> Um
there are many ways AI can go wrong in
2026.
Certainly one of them that we are quite
nervous about is bio. uh the the models
are quite good at bio and right now most
of our and by like our not just opening
eyes the world strategy is to try to
restrict who gets access to them and you
know put a bunch of classifiers to not
help people make novel pathogens um I
don't think that's going to work for
much longer and
the the shift that I think the world
needs to make for AI security generally
and bio AI biocurity in particular
particular is to move from one of like
blocking to one of resilience. Um my
co-founder Voychuk uses this analogy I
really like about fire safety. Fire did
all these wonderful things for society.
Then it started burning down cities. Uh
we tried to do all of these things to
restrict fire. I just actually learned
this weekend that curfew uh comes from
like when you weren't allowed to have
fires anymore because they were burning
down cities. And then we got better at
like resilience to fire and we came up
with fire code and flame resistant
materials and a bunch of other things.
Um, and now we're pretty good at that as
a society. Uh, I think we need to think
about AI the same way. AI is going to be
a real problem uh for bioteterrorism. Uh
AI is going to be a real problem for
cyber security. AI is also a solution to
those things. It's a solution to a lot
of other problems as well. And
I think we need like a societywide
effort, not to to to sort of provide the
infrastructure for this resilience, not
labs that we trust to sort of always
block what they're supposed to block.
And you know, there will be many good
models in the world. Um,
we've been talking to a lot of bio
researchers, companies about what it
takes to be able to deal with novel
pathogens. I think there are a lot of
people interested in the problem and a
lot of people reporting that AI actually
seems helpful at this but it won't be a
technological it won't be an entirely
technological solution. You will need
the world to think about these things uh
differently than we have been. So I am
very nervous about where things are, but
I don't see a path other than the sort
of resiliencebased approach. And it does
seem like AI can really help us do that
fast. But um if something goes really
wrong, like visibly really wrong for AI
uh this year, I think bio would be a
reasonable bet for what that could be.
Um
and then as we get into next year and
the following year, you can imagine lots
of other things going really wrong, too.
Hi, uh my name is Magna. Uh my question
is kind of related to human
collaboration in the sense that when
we're talking about AI models improving
and stuff like that, they become really
good, I think, for learning topics or
learning subjects really quickly on your
own. And that's something that we've
explored in the chat GBT and education
lab and which I really valued and I
appreciate a lot. But one thing that I
kind of often find myself coming back to
is the role of other humans and human
collaboration where it's just like if
you can get an answer at your fingertips
then why would you necessarily take the
time and maybe even the friction to ask
another human about it? Um, and so
that's something I've been thinking
about a lot also related to I think
something that you mentioned before in
this session where you're just like um
all these AI coding tools that can
perform the work of human teams in at a
much faster pace. So when I'm thinking
about like cooperation, collaboration
and kind of collective intelligence
output, I know that human plus AI is a
very powerful kind of avenue for that.
But what about maybe humans plus AI? Um,
yeah, if that makes sense.
>> Totally.
Many things in there. I I'm much older
than most of you, but I was still like I
was in middle school when Google came
out. And uh the teachers tried to make
the kids promise not to use it because
there was this feeling that if you could
look up anything at your fingertips,
then why come to history class? Why
memorize anything, you know? Uh and
it seemed to me totally insane. And I
was like, actually, I'm gonna be way
smarter and I'm gonna learn way more.
I'm gonna be able to do way more. And
this is the tool that I'm gonna like
live with as an adult. And if I don't
learn, it would be crazy to make me
learn something that assumed it. It felt
like it would be like, you know, many
decades earlier if you like made me
learn to use an abacus even though you
knew there were calculators because that
was just like a important thing to learn
or slide. I don't even know what came
before the calculator at this point, but
it was not a valuable skill to learn.
Um, and I feel the same way about AI
tools. Uh, I understand that
in the current way we teach kids, um, AI
tools are a problem. But I think that
suggests that we need to change the way
we teach people. Not not that like we
don't want, you know, the fact that you
can like have Chacht write something for
you. Uh, that's the way the world's
going to be. You still need to learn to
think and writing, learning to write or
the practice of writing is very
important to learn how to think. But
probably the way we should teach you to
think and the way we should evaluate
your thinking ability has changed and we
shouldn't pretend otherwise.
Uh
so and I feel totally
like this is going to be fine. Um we we
will you know the 10% of learners that
are like extreme autodidexs are already
doing amazing. we will figure out new
ways to teach the curriculum and bring
the other students along.
And then there's another thing you said
which is how do we make this be a
collaborative thing and not just you're
learning and performing and doing
amazing things but you're just with your
computer by yourself. Um
we haven't seen evidence of this yet and
it is something that we try to measure.
Uh, I
I suspect that human connection is going
to be more valuable in a world of lots
of AI, not less, and that people are
going to value getting together with
other people and and working with other
people more. Um, but we have started to
see people explore interfaces to make
that easier. And um as we think about
making our own hardware, our own
devices, we have thought a lot about I
maybe we've even thought first about
what a collaborative sort of multiplayer
plus an AI experience looks like. And my
sense is that although no one has
cracked it quite yet, we will be
surprised at how much
this is enabled by AI in a way that no
other technology has enabled. So you can
have, you know, five people sitting
around at the table and a little, you
know, kind of robot or something also
there and you will be able to be way
more productive as a group and you'll
just be used to this all the time. Like
every every group brainstorm, every time
you try to solve a problem, there'll
just be a AI as part of it and it'll
help the group do better.
Super how we talk about anything. As a
reminder, any requests like if you tell
us something, we'll probably just build
it.
>> [snorts]
>> Oops. Thanks. Um, I'm curious about like
as a agents start moving and operating
more production systems especially at
scale like where do you think or what
would you think is the most
underestimated failure mode like
security cost reliability and related to
that where do you think the really hard
work is being underinvested in right
now?
tons of problems everywhere. you
mentioned uh one of the things that
surprised me personally um and I think
is
in in two ways and has surprised many of
us here is when I first started using
codeex I said look I don't know how this
is going to go but for sure I'm not
going to give this thing like complete
unsupervised access to my computer I was
so confident in that and I lasted about
like 2 hours and then I was like you
know what it seems very reasonable the
agent seems to really do reasonable
things. I hate having to approve these
commands every time. I'm just going to
turn it on for like a little bit and see
what happens. And I never turned it I
never turned like you know full access
off. And I think other people have had a
similar thing. So the the the general
worry I have is that the power and
convenience of these are so high and the
failure rates are maybe catastrophic.
the failures when they happen are maybe
catastrophic, but the rates are so low
that we are going to kind of slide into
this like you know what yolo and
hopefully it'll be okay. And then as the
models get more capable uh and harder to
understand everything they're doing, if
there's a misalignment in the model, if
there's some sort of complex problem
that emerges over
weeks or months of usage and you kind of
put some security vulnerability into
something you're making and you know,
you can have various opinions on this
curve of like how crazy sci-fi you want
to get with the AI mis being misaligned
or whatever. But I think what's going to
happen is the pressure to adopt these
tools, to use them, not just the
pressure, the like delight and the power
of them is going to be so great that
people aren't
that people get pulled along into sort
of not thinking enough about the
complexity of how they're running these
things, how they're sure about, you
know, their this whatever sandbox
they've set up. And the the general
worry I have is that capability is going
to rise very steeply. We're going to get
used to how the models work at a certain
level and decide we trust them and
without building very good
I'll call it big picture security
infrastructure around it we will
sleepwalk into something.
I think that would be a great kind of
company to build.
Hi, I just wanted to go back to the
conversation about education. My name is
Claire. I'm a sophomore at Berkeley
studying cognitive science and design
and I was in high school when I saw my
peers using ChadBt to generate essays
and homework and stuff like that. And
now I'm in college and we're having
these discussions about AI policy and
coursework and CS and humanities and
everywhere. And I wanted to go back to
this idea of kindergarten and middle
school and what it might look like for
AI to be in classrooms during those
periods of really, you know, it's the
time when you figure out how to problem
solve and how to write and how to think.
And, you know, as someone who is a
father now, how do you foresee education
um changing and being shaped by AI
during those really formative years?
Uh, I mean, generally speaking, I'm a
fan of keeping computers out of
kindergarten. Uh, and I think
kindergarteners should be like running
around outside and playing with physical
things and trying to learn how to
interact with each other. Uh, so not
only would I not have AI in most
kindergartens, [clears throat] most of
the time, I wouldn't put computers
either. Um I
I think developmentally we still don't
understand all of the impacts of
technology uh on you know there's been
like a lot written about the impact of
social media on teenagers and that seems
like it's been pretty bad but I have a
sense that unfortunately
a bunch of technology on young children
has been even much worse and is still
talked about relatively little and I
think until we understand that better.
Like probably we don't need
kindergarteners using a ton of AI.
>> Hi, my name is Alan and um I'm in
bioarma. So uh genai has been really
helpful for clinical trial document
writing accelerated a lot of things been
amazing. Uh we're also trying to use it
for drug design particularly for
compounds and one of the things
one of the things we run into is uh 3D
reasoning. I was wondering if there's
going to be an inflection point or if
there's something you see down the line
on that.
We're going to get that solved. I don't
know if it's a 2026 thing. Um, but that
is a super common request and I think we
know how to do it. We just have a lot of
other urgent areas to push on, but we
will get there.
>> Thank you.
>> Hi, Sam. I'm Dan. Um, I just dropped out
of university in London to join the W26
Y cominator patch and I got two quick
questions. First one is my parents are
still kind of pressuring me to finish
university and do you think university
could be in its current state limiting
sometimes and second is uh do angel
invest?
Um
I dropped out of university and it took
my parents
10 years to stop asking when I was going
to go back. Uh, so I think like parents
are just going to do that and they love
you and they're trying to give you
advice they think is best and you just
sort of keep explaining to them that you
can always go back if you want, but the
world is in a different place now and
going to keep being in a different
place. I
I mean, everybody's got to make their
own decision, but I think you do need to
make your own decision and not just do
what society
tells you to do. Uh, and I don't
personally I think this is a time where
for if you are an AI builder, it is
probably not the best use of your time
to be in university right now. If you're
just like a sort of ambitious high
agency driven person, this is this is an
unusual period of time. And, you know,
you can always go back later and I think
just tell your parents that you're not
like it doesn't mean that it's not the
right thing for many people. uh it
doesn't mean that it won't be the right
thing for you sometime, but like right
now you got to do this thing and
they'll I think they'll understand
eventually. Um and then on the second
thing, I respect the hustle, but not
anymore. I miss it. I just got really
busy with OpenAI and it kind of gets
strange cuz if I end up investing in
companies that are like big OpenAI
customers, I decided it's easier not to.
Hey Sam. Um I have I'm Michael from work
OS. We do a lot of stuff with
authentication and identity and signing
in. So I have a feature request for you
which is sign in with my chat GBT
account. I think a lot of people would
like that.
>> We are going to do that. People ask me
for it all the time.
>> What what do you need? Do do you want
people to like be able to bring their
own token budget or do you want them to
like bring their chasht memories or all?
>> Yeah. So that's my question. I mean
definitely token budget. people be able
to bring their accounts and you know
what models they have access to. But I
think there's all this other stuff too
like what you know MCP servers does my
company have access to or what memory
does chatbt have about me or what
projects am I working on? I'm I'm
curious how you're thinking about that
like chat GPT knows so much about me
from a work perspective but also a very
personal perspective.
>> Yeah.
>> And and how developers can leverage
that. It's
>> so we do want to figure out how to do
this. Uh it's very scary because
Chacheti does know so much about you. Uh
and you know if you like tell a person
that you're very close to a bunch of
secrets, you can be like relatively
confident they'll know this exact social
nuances and when they share what with
who and when something overrules
something else. Um, our models are not
quite there, although they're getting
like pretty good at it. I would,
I think, feel uncomfortable if I
connected my CHBT account to a bunch of
sites and said, "Just use your judgment
about like when to share what you know
about me from all of my chat history and
everything I've connected." Um,
but when we can get there, it will
clearly be a cool thing to offer. And in
the meantime, I think doing something
just with, you know, token budgets and
if I pay for the pro model, then I can
use it on other services, that seems
like a cool thing to do. Uh, so I think
we will at least do that and we'll try
to figure out a way to get the
information sharing right, but like we
really don't want to we really don't
want to screw that up.
>> Hey, hey, Sam. Uh my name is Oleg and um
I guess we all agree here that uh
software development as a craft has
changed dramatically recently
but at the same time uh LinkedIn still
has open AI job offerings for uh
software developer and I'm curious how
did the interview have changed in past
month or years?
I we're going to keep hiring software
developers, but we are for the first
time and I know every other company and
every other startup is thinking about
this too. Uh
we we are planning to dramatically slow
down how quickly we grow um because we
think we'll be able to do so much more
with fewer people. And
I think at this point a lot of the
impediments
that we face or that other companies
face is it's just like the internal
policies that have built up at most
companies did not contemplate a majority
AI co-workers.
Uh and that's going to take a while. But
what I think we shouldn't do and what I
hope other companies won't do either is
hire super aggressively then realize all
of a sudden AI can do a lot of stuff and
you need fewer people and have to have
some sort of very uncomfortable
conversation. Um so I think the right
approach for us will be to hire more
slowly but keep hiring and trust that
I'm not a believer that like event well
maybe someday far in the future open has
like zero employees but for a long time
I think we'll just have a lot we'll have
a gradually increasing number of people
doing much more stuff and this is kind
of what I expect the shape of the
economy to look like more generally in
terms of what the interview looks like
it has not yet changed as much as it
should but I was in a meeting today with
people talking about how we want it to
change. We basically would like to sit
you down with something that would have
been impossible for one person to do in
two weeks uh you know this time last
year and watch them do it in 10 minutes
or 20 minutes or whatever. Um
there are yeah I think that's like the
high order bit is you just you want to
interview you want to see that people
are going to be able to work in this new
way very effectively. Um I think
software engineering interviews have
been bad for a long time uh and maybe
not that relevant but now they're even
less relevant. Uh so that's one thing
that there there's like a more general
thing that a few of these questions have
hinted at which is is the future going
to be
you know companies don't hire many
people and have a lot of AI co-workers
or uh you know some version of that or
is it going to be that companies the
companies that win in the future are
entirely AI you know like it's a rack
full of GPUs and no people I really hope
it's the the former um there are a bunch
of reasons why it seems like it could be
something closer to the ladder. But if
companies don't adopt AI aggressively,
if companies don't figure out how to
hire people that are going to use the
tools really effectively, they will
eventually just be out competed by a
fully AI company that doesn't have to
have the sort of silly policies that
prevent big companies from using AI or
whatever. And that feels like it'll be a
very destabilizing thing for society. So
I we've been trying to figure out how to
talk about this, but I think it's very
because it sounds self- serving for us
to say, but I think it's very important
that companies adopt AI in a big way
very quickly.
>> Hi Sam, I'm Cole. I'm a creator and
cinematographer. Um I think we've seen
especially in the past year it has
completely changed the way we tell
stories and as a result the way we view
ourselves um there have been so many
interesting plays in like the creative
space like for Sora um it was such an
interesting use of like the self as a
canvas and allowing you to be able to
use AI and put yourself in all of these
fantastical scenarios. Um, I'm really
curious where you see kind of this
relationship between human creative
identity and also AI assisted creation
is going, especially as these models
continue to advance.
>> The the place that we can
study and I think learn the most right
now is uh, image gen. It's been around
the longest. The creative community has
used it and disliked it and liked it the
most. Um,
one of the interest there's many
interesting observations there, but one
of them is that uh consumers of it
report
dramatically consumers of images report
dramatically higher um appreciation,
satisfaction, whatever, if they are told
a person made it versus an AI. Um, and I
think this is going to be a deep trend
at the coming decades is we care a lot
about other people and we care very
little about the machines. Um, of all of
the the slurs for AI, clanker is my
favorite one. I I think it just it like
so evokes people's emotional reaction
and
you can see these incredible beautiful
creative to me at least uh you know
clanker made images
and as soon as you're told that many
people's subjective appreciation
goes way down. Um, there was a thing I
saw on the internet last year of
they would go to people who said they
they really hated AI generated art, like
still images. And
the people would also say, and I can
tell for sure what the AI generated
images are because they're terrible. And
they'd show them 10 images and say,
"Rank your favorite ones." You half
would be done entirely by a human, half
entirely by AI. And like fairly
consistently, they would rank the AI
ones at the top. And then as soon as
they were told that they would say
actually I don't like it and you know
this is not the one I want. And that is
kind of the test is what what you like.
When I finish reading a book the that I
love the first thing I want to do is
like look up the author and understand
their life and you know kind of how it
led them to do that cuz I felt this
connection to this person that I don't
know and now I want to understand them.
And I think if I read a great novel and
at the end I learned it was written by
an AI would sort of be kind of sad and
crestfallen. Um,
and I I I think this is going to be a
deep and durable trend. However,
if the art is even a little bit human
directed and how little maybe we'll have
to figure out how people feel over time,
people don't seem to have that same
strong emotional reaction. And this is
versions of this been going on for a
long time. You know, if digital artists
used Photoshop, people still love their
art. So,
My expectation given the behavior that
we're seeing now from creators and
consumers is that
>> the person and their life story and
their editing or curation or whatever
goes into that process is going to
matter a lot and we're not going to want
the entirely AI generated art broadly
speaking at least from what we can learn
from images.
>> We have time for two more questions.
Hey Sam, my name is Keith Curry, recent
graduate of San Francisco State. And my
question revolves a bit around like
personalization and memories. So first
part is kind of how do you see that
evolving over time? And then also what
are your thoughts on like more
granularity like
>> for example grouping memories? So like
this is my work identity, this is my
personal identity. So that way as you're
doing different prompts you can sort of
be more selective about what you want to
be included on it.
>> Yeah. So, we're going to push super hard
on memory and personalization. Clearly,
people want it and it delivers a way
better way to use these tools. Um, I
I have gone through my own evolution
here, but at this point, I am ready for
chat to just look at my whole computer
and my whole internet and just know
everything. the value from it is so high
and
I don't feel uncomfortable about it
>> in the way that I used to. I really hope
you know all AI companies take security
and privacy super seriously and I hope
that society as a whole does
>> too because
the utility is so great like AI is going
to know about my whole life. I'm not
going to get in the way of that. I don't
yet feel ready to like wear the glasses
recording everything. I think that's
still uncomfortable for a bunch of
reasons, but I do feel ready to say
like, hey, you can just have access to
my computer. Um, and figure out what's
going on and be useful to me and
understand everything and like have a
perfect representation of my digital
life. Uh, I am lazy. I think most users
are lazy too though. So, it's like a
reasonable representation. And I don't
want to sit there and have to group like
this is a work memory, this is a
personal memory, this is something that
what I want and what I believe is
possible. We t talked about this a
little bit earlier is for AI to have a
such a deep understanding of the complex
rules and interactions and sort of
hierarchy of my life that it knows what
to use when and what to expose where.
And
we better figure that out because I
think that's what most users will want
to.
>> Hi Sam, my name is Luan. I'm a
international school uh student from
Vietnam and my question is what do you
think is the most important skill that
people should learn in the age of AI?
>> These are all kind of like soft skills.
None of them are like as go like learn
to program was so obviously the right
thing you know over recent period of
time and now it's not. But skills like
become high agency,
get good at generating ideas,
be very resilient, be very adaptable to
a rapidly changing world. I I think
these are going to matter more than any
specific and I think these are all
learnable. Um, this is one of the
surprises to me of having been a startup
investor is the degree to which you can
like take people and in a three-month
sort of boot camp style thing make them
extremely formidable and do the things
on all those axes I was just talking
about is very surprising. Uh, it was a
big update to me and and so I think
these are the skills that may matter the
most and they're they're like quite
learnable.
Are we out of time? Okay. Um,
thank you all very much for coming and
talking. We really do want input on what
you'd like us to build. Like assume we
will have a model that is 100 times more
capable than the current model with 100
times the context length that 100x the
speed of the 100x reduced cost, perfect
tool calling, extreme like coherence
over like we're going to get there. Uh,
tell us what you'd like us to build.
we're going to hang around and uh you
know if you're like hey I just need this
API or I just need this kind of
primitive or I just need this sort of
runtime or whatever it is um like we're
building it for you and we'd like to get
it right. But thank you all for coming.
[applause]